Welcome back to the interview today the science course.
And today we're going to talk about a brand new concept that we're introducing to the world called the
six week data scientists we have seen lots of success stories we've been through the journey ourselves
in some cases several times and we know what it takes to become a data scientist and our statement here
is that you can become a did a scientist in six weeks you can become a starting date and not promising
that you can become a super successful best there are scientists in the world.
No but you can become a data scientist that can add value to businesses that can apply machine learning
visualization understand statistical concepts and use Python and other programming languages and apply
machine learning concepts within six weeks.
And to prove that we've got a specific timeline set out for a specific path we have a timeline attached
to it.
So we're going to go through it now and we'll show you exactly what you need to study and in what order
and how much time you spend on each topic in order to get there.
You ready.
Let's dive straight into it.
All right.
So you start here on Day Zero and the first thing that we suggest looking at is statistics and oh all
of these topics that we're going to cover of here this is going to be 10 steps to get to the finish.
We're going to talk about them in more detail in this section of the course and you will get to know
them a bit better.
So don't worry if you feel a bit like you don't really understand why something is important or why
something is this or what it constitutes.
That's OK because first of all we'll talk about it in this section of the course.
And then moreover we will cover up this whole map again in the conclusion of the course.
Just to reiterate everything once you have a different perspective once you know what these topics are
about so statistics we suggest spending six days of mistakes.
And the reason so we're going to mention in this trial we're going to mention why the reason why we
think these things are important and the reason why for statistics is to avoid costly mistakes.
I'm a firm believer that you don't really need to know all of these things in the world to be successful
there are scientists but you do need a core foundation in order to avoid mistakes and in order to avoid
misrepresenting results misinterpreting insights.
And in this course will tell you exactly what statistics to focus on.
It should.
It's should be sufficient for you to be able to grasp those concepts in six days.
Next step is to learn the data science process.
Don't worry we've got you covered here.
We will actually walk through the data science process in one of the tutorials in this course so that
part we've got covered for you and you can always reference back to it if you need a refresher.
It's got five steps and the Dennison's process is the process that pretty much any data assigns project
goes through.
It's important to kind of distinguish what we are talking about here is your roadmap to becoming a data
scientist whereas the design process is the process.
A day a science project goes through contains five steps and it's good to be aware of it so that you
know the bigger picture.
But once again we've got you covered on this.
And so let's proceed further.
The next step is viz. learning about facilitation and picking a tool and learning how to apply the tool
to create successful and insightful visualization.
It should be sufficient.
Ten days should be sufficient to get you going on the way.
There are some very powerful and the simple to use tools that allow dragon Drogin drag and drop interface
some examples at Tablo click View and power VI.
So those are just three tools I can name off the top of my head that it takes like two or three days
to get your head around and be able to use and in 10 days you can create by then you can read like five
very powerful Weasel's missions and you will know 60 percent of that or you will know how to use it
in how to leverage its power for your work.
So we're allocating 10 days to it so that you can get to get to know it and actually practice in that
time.
We actually expect that you fulfill the next checkpoint.
So these orange all these brown boxes identify checkpoints and we expect that or we suggest in those
10 days you attempt you first did a science project.
So what we're saying here is that those ten days are enough to learn isolation and practice some pro-law
long kind projects.
We have instructors whether you're taking these courses on line in person reading books or watching
videos.
But what we're saying with the checkpoint is like trying to attempt your first day at a science project
using visualization techniques that you learned in those 10 days.
And see that it is actually not as difficult as you think you might not be able to complete the project
end to end.
Not yet but you will already be able to get some insights and get some value information from the data.
Next from there the next step is databases.
So the reason why behind databases is so that you expand your reach of data so that you can have access
to more data.
So up until this point you're probably looking at data well in this process that this is an election
year you will be probably looking at data in CACP files or Excel files whereas if you learn the basics
of Asgill databases you'll be able to get more data access to more data and therefore for more analytics.
And again we are allocate five days to this simply because to get the basics of working with databases.
Five days is well more than enough to understand simple concepts like a select statement in a school
that takes just a couple of days and in five days you should be able to know the basics of how to extract
some data from a database.
The next step in our path is statistical learning.
And so this is the tutorial in this section of the course where you will get to meet at lunch.
And if you haven't met him yet then for the first time I'd love to but the rest is the second instructor
on the course and with great lots and lots of courses together and how he'll be telling your boss to
just learning the reason why we're allocating only two days to discoloring is not because it's a simple
concept but because we want to make sure that you don't get bogged down as the disco learning or we
don't get too carried away with it.
Those are two extremes that are not going to create hurdles for you progressing to becoming a data scientist
in order to be a data scientists you don't really need to know all the ins and outs of every single
algorithm that you might need if you want to do research in this space and this is what some call some
basic statistical learning principles are going to be sufficient in order to just give you an example
of what it's all about.
So the ha the why here is in order to get a feel for what's a disco learning is and to see that if you
want to delve deeper into CERN machine learning all you can because of the discoloring.
And then finally the next step and probably the largest step in our journey is machine learning.
We're allocating 12 days to this because understanding how to apply machine learning algorithms and
when to apply which one is very important.
It is one of the most used.
In fact it is the most used concept in the whole data size.
You will see that a lot of business pros or industry problems or health problems or all sorts of the
types of problems are actually sold using machine learning and that's why it's such an important concept
and such an important space.
And the idea here is that you take those 12 days to learn several algorithms between three and five
different core machine learning algorithms that you will look into something from regression something
for classification something clustering.
Those are just branches of machine learning each one of them has like at least three to seven different
algorithms.
But if you learn at least one algorithm from every single one of those branches one from regression
one from clustering about justification and maybe one or two other ones just get to practice them if
you spend two days per algorithm that should be totally enough to give you an understanding of First
of all that you can do it.
And second the types of problems that they solve so that in the future when you come across a problem
you know I've seen this somewhere or it feels like I need to use this algorithm and I'm going to go
do that.
So that's machine learning.
After that we've got another checkpoint attempt and advanced data center project.
In fact that checkpoint is actually included in those 12 days.
So as you spend the 12 days learning three to five different algorithms give it a shot to take on an
Advanced Science Challenge and you'll be surprised at how far we can progress.
All right then we will then we allocate five days to learning more about Python.
So Aro in this case we were suggesting to apply machine learning using Python and therefore learning
more about Python is going to help you speed up your process.
So the how behind learning are the why behind learning Python is to increase the agility with which
you can solve these machine learning challenges.
Five days should be enough to learn the basic principle of python and get enough hands on practice so
that you are more comfortable using by them.
And finally at their journey we're allocating two days to deep learning.
Again it's not because it's a simple concept it's rather to get a feel for deep learning to understand
what is possible in the world of deep learning other opportunities it opens up.
So you always know that there's this alternative to your visual analytics and your machine learning
analytics this is something even more advanced which is called deep learning.
And then one day when you do decide to dive into it you know that's it's there.
And you know where approximately which direction to go.
So it's a good good to have that.
And so after that 42 days you made it.
If you follow this process and you diligently put in the hours every single one of these days that he
specified here at the end by day 42 you will be ready to go out there and to tell the world that a new
data scientist has arrived.
And you can go on Kaggle and start looking at different competitions where you can participate.
You can go on work and create your data science profile and say that you're studying all data scientists
then start bidding for jobs and Janks hands on experience that way and maybe if you're studying odds
you're on your own then you can approach your first client.
It might be scary but based on all the work you've done and all the hours that you've put in by this
stage you are ready to start into the real world.
So that's that's our journey.
And in fact in this course we've got two extra features for you.
We'll give you a feel for what it's like to be a data scientist will you get a feel for what it's like
to apply visualization.
We'll be talking about these issues for data mining so we have a whole section on where you can get
to play around with Tablo and solve a real world challenge step by step together with us.
And also same thing for machine learning.
We have a whole section where you actually sold two challenges together with us in machine learning
using Python.
So we're very excited about this course.
We hope you're excited about this journey.
As excited as we are we've just come up with this concept and we were just introducing it to the world
so you are going to be our first subjects that are going to go through this and we're very confident
that if you follow this rigorous if you take this course to the end and you actually get get a feel
for what this is all about and you decide that it is what you want it is what you're after.
Then then if you follow this map and you put in the hours and all of these days and you use credible
sources for your knowledge for your practice then we're very confident that by day 42 you'll be out
there and ready to take on the challenges.
All right so hope you're excited.
Let's dive straight into the next tutorial and I'll see you there.
Until then enjoy the science.